## Blood Report Analysis
**Introduction**:
This project is a blood test analysis tool designed to interpret blood test results and identify potential health conditions. By inputting blood test reports, users can obtain analysis results and insights. The tool also allows for the testing of sample files provided in the repository.

**Dataset**
Dataset is generated by using real-time reports from medical labs. The dataset consists of CBC(Complete Blood Count) reports, the potential for expansion to include additional types of blood test reports in the future could further enhance the tool's usefulness for users.


**Features**:
Based on the provided context, the features of this project include:

1. Blood Test Analysis: The project offers the capability to analyze blood test results and provide insights into potential health conditions based on the input values.

2. User Input: Users can input their blood test values and obtain analysis results, allowing for personalized health assessment.

3. Sample Testing: The tool provides the option to test sample files located in the `data/` directory, enabling users to explore the functionality without inputting their own data.

4. Contribution Guidelines: The project encourages contributions through reporting issues on GitHub and welcomes pull requests for bug fixes and new features, following the PEP8 style guidelines.

5. License Information: The project is distributed under the MIT license, providing clarity on the terms of use and distribution.

These features collectively aim to provide a user-friendly and informative blood test analysis tool.

**Usefulness Of the Peoject**
Health Insights: Users can leverage technology to interpret their blood test reports, gaining a deeper understanding of their health status and potential underlying conditions.

Convenience: The tool provides a convenient and accessible platform for analyzing blood test reports, eliminating the need for manual interpretation and enabling quick access to insights.

Personalized Analysis: By inputting their blood test values, users can receive personalized analysis, allowing for tailored health assessments based on individual results.

Empowerment: The project empowers users to take charge of their health by providing a user-friendly interface to interpret CBC reports, fostering greater health awareness and informed decision-making.


**Installation**:
Clone the repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/jyotsna2411/blood-report-analysis.git
Install required packages:

bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
Usage:
Data:
We have created our datasets by using real-time reports from medical labs.

**Models**:
Random Forest Classifier2. Naive Bayes Classifier3. Support Vector Machine (SVM) Classifier4. XGBoost Classifier5. K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) Classifier6. AdaBoost ClassifierThese models are utilized to predict health conditions based on blood test results. The project involves training and evaluating these models, including hyperparameter tuning to optimize their performance. Additionally, the use of pipelines and feature standardization is incorporated to ensure robust and accurate predictions.









